hello world from joeio

4/4 TOM - After collaborating on a list of router views and components my INTENTION was to produce a component heirarchy diagram to aid planning and production.

5/4 TOM - OUTCOME - I generated a component heirarchy for the main 'postfeed' page. Feeling some confusion over router pages and their relationship with components - I did some revision then produced a diagram of router pages for the project which showed their relationships and url assignments. INTENTION - To revise Github, then build the router background elements for the group project. And to build the wait animation (loading) component too.

6/4 TOM - OUTCOME - Got the router pages code done, and familiarised myself with the Github process by building and merging the wait animation component while sharing with Joe who was also building a component. INTENTION - after problems began to emerge on our shared Github project it became evident that several of us were merging from the Main and it had become problematic with node modules. After looking into .gitignore I resolved to rebuild the repository transferring over existing work.

7/4 TOM - OUTCOME - Natalie offered to rebuild the repository instead so I stepped back from that. INTENTION - to map out schemas for our project and revise front/back communication.

8/4 TOM - OUTCOME I collaborated on schemas for User, Post, and Comments. After revising I locally built a backend utilizing these schemas and a frontend to test their interaction with Mongo database. There were problems. INTENTION - to resolve the problems existing in the front/back end code, merge the results into the group repository and begin utilizing this in building components for the project.







11/4 NAT - Collaboratively troubleshooting github/ folder issues and tidied up the folder structure via videocall. Troubleshooted & resolved github issues with tutor

11/4 TOM - OUTCOME We had a fruitful collaboration while I shared the  backend I had built and we managed to resolve the problems. We merged it into the respository. I built 3 local frontend projects (one for each schema) which served as a template for frontend code to interact with the database, and also as a way to enter data into it which would be useful in building the project. I entered a range of users and posts for this purpose - taking the info from interviews and reddit posts about the 'speakers'. I posted these projects in the group thread for my team mates. As I began to look at building the 'postfeed' 2 things occured to me. A - that the app.vue needed to be set up as a clean slate with some global styling so that members could woork on their views and components and see the results locally. And B - that it would be more efficient to include relevant user data in the post and comments schema. To this end I created updated schema lists. I then reconfigured the component roadmap for the 'home' view and then built a similar roadmap for the 'FullArticle' view. INTENTION - to present my updated approach to my team, update the backend on the repository, clean up and style app.vue, then rebuild the frontend tools accordingly.

12/4 TOM - OUTCOME The team agreed with my changes, so I used the tools to delete the existing data in the database, and then we updated the schemas on the repository. We sorted out app.vue and agreed upon a state which we would leave it each time we merged our branches. I was unsure of how to handle the 'Current User' data and asked Utku if there was a global variable in Vue - he looked into it and returned with the 'provide/inject' option. I rebuilt and tested the frontend tools/templates and posted them for the group. In doing so I realized there were some tweaks we still had to make to the schemas (data definitions). INTENTION - to update the schemas on the repository, recreate a bunch of users and posts for the database, investigate 'provide/inject', and get the construction of the PostList component underway.

13/4 TOM - OUTCOME I deleted the existing posts on the database, we updated the schemas, and I re-entered the posts (to aid postList construction). I built the PostList component and got it functioning from the database. I left the provide/inject to team members (Natalie and Joy) dealing with The signup/login process for the meantime. I started developing the WritePost component, beginning with building a getUser function to get the user details of 'Current User' based on a user ID (to be provided by provide/inject) - I got this part working. INTENTION To finish buiding the WritePost component, get it sending posts to the database. Then start work on the FullArticle view page by investigating sending selected post data to the new view.

14/4 TOM - OUTCOME I got the WritePost component functional and styled. When putting the Home view elements (HomeNav, WriePost, Postlist) together on the Home view I had some concerns about the vertical real estate of the page - considering the range of mobile formats. I was frustrated in my attempts to link to the FullArticle view while carrying the selected post data to it. Given the short time we have left I wonder if it would be best to abandon the 'FullArticle' view idea and have the interactivity and comments with the Posts on the Home view. INTENTION - To discuss possible solutions for dealing with the vertical real estate issue. To discuss the possibilty of abandoning the FullArticle approach. To move forward on adding interactivity ( update, delete ) and comments to the posts in whatever format is deemed best.